Executing link 62 of 65: https://www.teenvoice.com/insights/how-teens-are-using-and-not-using-generative-ai
Extracted Page Text: This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link: Privacy Policy
FEATURES
INSIGHTS
ABOUT US
LOGIN
GET STARTED

DIGITAL LIFE

How Teens Are Using (and Not Using) Generative AI

PUBLISHED DATE: JULY 16, 2024

AI is everywhere in the business world, but for teens it’s just getting started. Yes, 81% of teens have heard of at least one of the top AI tools -- but only 41% of teens have heard of ChatGPT, the top AI tool on the market. That number is much lower for other AI tools such as Gemini or DALL-E.



And a surprisingly small number of teens are actually using AI tools. 40% have tried ChatGPT, 17% have tried Gemini, and far fewer have tried any other option.



But whether they’re using it or not, AI will become an increasingly important part of teens’ lives. And that’s one reason why it’s so important that they become familiar with what AI can and can’t do – and know how to put AI to work in their lives.


So far, teens who do use AI are using it for homework, schoolwork, and related activities like writing and tutoring. A minority are starting to use AI for creative visual art and finding things to do. 15% say they’re using AI to “keep them company,” which may involve chatting with AI bots such as Alexa or Siri to pass the time.



That means that only a tiny number of teens are exploring the “fun” side of AI – nor are they truly exploiting its ability to help with problem-solving or exploration. When asked, only a very few said they’ve explored future options, made plans, learned about new hobbies, built personal skills, or asked for advice about anything at all – from fashion to travel planning. A full 25% of teens say they’ve never used AI at all – for any purpose.



Parents may be pleased to hear that AI isn’t a major part of teens’ day-to-day lives. But if they’ve perused job listings recently, they may be surprised to see how many job descriptions include at least a mention of AI use. And AI is a growing part of many things teens enjoy, from video games to television to music.



Now is the right time to start developing tools, courses, and experiences to give teens the tools they need to use AI appropriately, effectively, and creatively. Such offerings are needed to provide today’s young people with tools for –



-Using AI to explore post-secondary options

-Tapping into AI’s ability to expand on and explore creative ideas

-Understanding how AI is used – and will be used – in various careers

-Evaluating products produced by AI for issues ranging from bias to accuracy

-Defining appropriate and inappropriate uses of AI in various settings



Rather than allowing teens to avoid AI altogether, it will be important to build their experience, confidence, and critical skills so that they can incorporate AI into their lives and their work.

Quick Links

SURVEY BUILDER
INSIGHTS
FEATURES
ABOUT US
FAQ
LOGIN
PRIVACY POLICY
COMMERCIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS

EVOLVEME

a free future-planning site for teens

ⓒ 2024 TeenVoice. All rights reserved.
Distinct Misspelled Words: [
  'july',            '16',
  '81',              '--',
  '41',              'chatgpt',
  'gemini',          'dall-e',
  '40',              '17',
  'theyre',          '15',
  'alexa',           'siri',
  'problem-solving', 'theyve',
  '25',              'isnt',
  'day-to-day',      '-using',
  'post-secondary',  '-tapping',
  'ais',             '-understanding',
  '-evaluating',     '-defining',
  'evolveme',        'future-planning'
]
