Executing link 52 of 65: https://www.teenvoice.com/insights/teen-voice-article-teens-and-social-media-its-complicated
Extracted Page Text: This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link: Privacy Policy
FEATURES
INSIGHTS
ABOUT US
LOGIN
GET STARTED

DIGITAL LIFE

Teens and Social Media: It’s Complicated

PUBLISHED DATE: OCTOBER 23, 2024

Teenagers scrolling through social media, their faces illuminated by the glow of their screens—it’s a scene practically emblematic of modern life. While the sight may be familiar, what’s going on is far from simple. A new study by teen research and insights firm TeenVoice reveals teens’ relationship with social media is both complex and contradictory. The research surveyed 2,004 diverse teens from across the U.S. and paints a nuanced portrait of a generation navigating the double-edged sword of digital connection. As a 16-year-old Hispanic male from California says: "Social media is beneficial for teens because it’s a good tool for inspiration, but when people get hooked on validation online it gets really unhealthy."
Constantly Checking, But…Whatever
The numbers are staggering: 98% of teens use at least one social media platform daily. On average, teens juggle four different platforms a day, with YouTube, TikTok, and Instagram emerging as the most popular. Yet, when asked about the importance of social media in their lives, few teens rate it as "very" or "extremely" important, meaning there’s a disconnect between usage and perceived importance of these platforms in teens’ lives.
Feels Good–Most of the Time
Regarding social media’s emotional impact, teens report a mix of positive and negative experiences. After spending time on social media, 64% feel entertained, 48% feel connected, and 47% feel inspired or happy. These positive emotions suggest that social media fulfills many teens’ essential social and emotional needs.

However, the picture isn't entirely rosy. The same platforms also breed negative emotions. Nearly a third of teens report feeling stressed after using social media, while more than a quarter feel anxious, angry, or depressed.

A 16-year-old mixed race trans individual from Washington captures this duality: "I believe teenagers benefit from using social media in the sense that it connects them further with their friends. They can share happy moments…and see moments their friends shared as well. This is also the bad part of social media as most teenagers will develop FOMO Fear Of Missing Out.”

Interestingly, taking breaks from social media doesn't necessarily lead to emotional relief. While disconnecting makes 44% of teens feel calm, significant percentages still experience stress (31%), anxiety (30%), and depression (28%) when away from these platforms.
Negative Feelings Hit Some Groups Harder
The study reveals notable differences in how various demographic groups experience social media. Female teens, White teens, and those identifying as LGBTQ+ report higher levels of anxiety, stress, depression, and FOMO after scrolling compared to their counterparts.

In terms of racial differences, Black teens report lower levels of anxiety from social media use, while Asian teens are less likely to feel entertained, happy, or intellectually stimulated.

Location also plays a role with urban teens more likely to view social media positively than their rural or suburban peers.
The Mental Health Paradox
Health experts are increasingly concerned about the relationship between teens and social media. U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy and the American Psychological Association (APA) have issued advisories highlighting the growing evidence of social media's detrimental effects on young people's mental well-being. Dr. Murthy has even called for cigarette-style warning labels on social media platforms. And in a related development, a coalition of attorneys general from across the country filed a lawsuit against TikTok in October 2024, alleging that the platform's addictive nature harms young people's mental health.

These concerns seem reflected in teens’ attitudes. Despite enjoying and benefiting from social media use, nearly 30% of teens don't believe it positively affects their mental well-being. Furthermore, about a third of teens disagree with the statement, “Social media impacts most teenagers’ mental health in a positive way.” This paradox suggests that while teens may recognize the personal benefits of social media, they are also aware of its potential negative impact on themselves and their peers.

A 15-year-old White female from Michigan pointedly observes, “Previous generations never had social media, and while they may have had depression or anxiety, there is NOW an epidemic of mental health issues. Coincidence much? I think not.”

And a 14-year-old White male from Indiana offers this warning, “We are all in our world, but it’s not Earth. It’s the cyber world. If it doesn’t stop soon then a lot of people will continue to be sad, and depression in teens will only be more common.”
Both The Problem And The Solution
When it comes to managing stress and mental health, teens again show a conflicted approach to social media. Nearly half believe that disconnecting from stressful media is a good way to cope with mental health struggles. Yet, a similar proportion views social media as an effective distraction from stress and a platform for sharing mental health experiences.

A 19-year-old female from New York shares her experience: “I started feeling a lot better when I deleted Instagram and Twitter. I feel like people would be a lot happier without social media. It’s…used to spread so much toxicity, like some of the comment sections, especially on Instagram and Twitter. It's just really depressing."

On the other hand, a 16-year-old White Female from Illinois offers a balanced perspective: "I believe teenagers benefit by being able to interact when they wouldn’t, but it also can be harmful because lots of things on social are completely stupid stuff that everyone believes."

This duality suggests that teens see social media as both a potential source of and solution to mental health challenges.
A World Of Contradiction
Connection and isolation, joy and stress, empowerment and vulnerability, nothing in teens’ digital lives is as simple as a like or share. This study shows that the relationship between teens and social media remains deeply nuanced and multifaceted
Key Takeaways
High Usage, Low Importance: Nearly all teens (98%) use social media daily, juggling multiple platforms. Yet, few consider social media very important to their lives, indicating a disconnect between frequent usage and perceived value.

Mixed Emotional Impact: While social media often makes teens feel entertained, connected, and inspired, it also leads to negative emotions like stress, anxiety, and depression for a significant portion.

Demographic Disparities: Negative feelings like stress, anxiety, and depression are more common among female teens, LGBTQ+ teens, and White teens. Black teens report lower anxiety, while Asian teens feel less entertained and happy using social media.

Mental Health Concern: Teens recognize social media’s impact on mental health, with many doubting its positive effects despite continued use. Health experts and legal actions highlight growing concerns about its harmful influence.

Contradictory Solutions: Teens are conflicted about whether social media helps or harms their mental health, seeing it both as a source of stress and a tool for coping or distraction.

Complex Relationship: Overall, teens’ relationship with social media is nuanced, marked by both connection and isolation, joy and stress.

Want deeper insights? Create your own teen survey with our self-service tools, or dive into our comprehensive report on stress, mental health, and how teens are coping.
Methodology
TeenVoice has developed an innovative approach to understanding today's youth, setting us apart from companies that rely on traditional surveys and outdated techniques. We've crafted unique methods to reach, engage, and communicate with teens in their preferred environments, encouraging more authentic interactions. Our approach allows us to capture deeper insights into their thoughts, mental health, and overall well-being. The studies we produce reflect the digital landscape teens inhabit and highlight important demographic nuances across age, gender, race, ethnicity, and geography. This special report on teens and social media is excerpted from one of three robust studies conducted in March and April of 2024 involving over 6,000 7th through 12th graders throughout the U.S.

Quick Links

SURVEY BUILDER
INSIGHTS
FEATURES
ABOUT US
FAQ
LOGIN
PRIVACY POLICY
COMMERCIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS

EVOLVEME

a free future-planning site for teens

ⓒ 2024 TeenVoice. All rights reserved.
Distinct Misspelled Words: [
  'october',    '23',              'screensits',
  '2004',       'double-edged',    '16-year-old',
  'hispanic',   'california',      'butwhatever',
  '98',         'tiktok',          'instagram',
  'goodmost',   '64',              '48',
  '47',         'washington',      'momentsand',
  'fomo',       '44',              '31',
  '30',         '28',              'lgbtq',
  'asian',      'dr',              'vivek',
  'murthy',     'american',        'apa',
  'well-being', 'cigarette-style', '15-year-old',
  'michigan',   '14-year-old',     'indiana',
  'cyber',      'doesnt',          '19-year-old',
  'york',       'itsused',         'illinois',
  'wouldnt',    'self-service',    'april',
  '6000',       'evolveme',        'future-planning'
]
