Executing link 1 of 89: https://www.wpp.com/en-us/about
Extracted Page Text: ABOUT
INVESTORS
MEDIA
CAREERS
WPP iQ
WORK
WPP OPEN
CONTACTS
EN (US)
Search
WPP IS THE CREATIVE TRANSFORMATION COMPANY
We use the power of creativity to build better futures for our people, planet, clients and communities
We are a world leader in marketing services

WPP is home to market-leading agency brands and more than 100,000 people committed to doing extraordinary work for our clients. No other company matches the breadth of our creative talent, the scale of our global presence, or the depth of our technology, data and AI capabilities.

Explore WPP agencies

We deliver transformational results for the world’s biggest companies

We have enduring relationships with leading global brands and organisations, including more than 300 of the Fortune 500, helping them to innovate, transform and grow.

We provide a modern, integrated offer

Our offer to clients spans every discipline of modern marketing through our global integrated media and creative agencies, public relations firms and specialist communications companies.

See our latest work for clients
Creative

We create scalable ideas and experiences that bring to life brands and their customer relationships

Media

We connect brands to consumers across the full range of media channels and platforms

PR

We manage reputation and communication with key stakeholders

Specialist

We provide branding, design and other specialist services to help clients stand out

Our people are the key to our success

We're committed to fostering a culture of creativity, belonging and continuous learning. By attracting the brightest talent and empowering our teams to do their best work, we deliver outstanding results for our clients.

Find out more about our approach to people and culture
See open job roles 

 

Our global footprint spans more than 100 countries

We bring teams together from around the world to deliver impactful ideas and leading capabilities for clients. Our state-of-the art campuses in the world’s top cities enable flexible working and seamless collaboration across marketing disciplines and agencies.

Discover our campus spaces

Our sustainability commitments support our corporate strategy

We use our creativity, capabilities and global reach to drive sustainability within our own business, our clients’ businesses and across our industry.

Find our more about our sustainability commitments
Learn more about our net zero commitment

Our strategic partnerships provide clients with ground-breaking solutions

We use our scale and unique relationships to unlock exclusive benefits from partners, develop joint products and deliver go-to-market initiatives that bring additional value for our clients.

Find out more about our strategic partnerships approach

Our work is recognised around the world

We are globally renowned for our innovative ideas that bring brands to life and help our clients connect with consumers. Our commitment to both creative excellence and effectiveness has established us as a leader in the industry.

See our latest work for clients
WPP wins Most Creative Company of the Year at Cannes Lions 2024

Privacy policy
Terms & conditions
Cookies
Accessibility
Modern Slavery Act statement
Contacts
Right to Speak
Fraudulent use of WPP's name
WPP intranet
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube

© WPP plc 1999-2025

Use of cookies on WPP.com
We use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience, analyze site traffic and personalise content. Read about how we use cookies on our Cookie Policy and see how you can control them in Cookies settings.
Cookies settings Reject all cookies Accept all cookies
Distinct Misspelled Words: [
  'wpp',            'iq',
  'market-leading', '100000',
  'ai',             'organisations',
  '300',            '500',
  '100',            'impactful',
  'state-of-the',   'ground-breaking',
  'go-to-market',   'recognised',
  'cannes',         '2024',
  "wpp's",          'intranet',
  'facebook',       'instagram',
  'linkedin',       'youtube',
  'plc',            '1999-2025',
  'wppcom',         'personalise'
]
