Executing link 14 of 65: https://www.teenvoice.com/reports/digital-youth-strategic-insights-for-nonprofits
Extracted Page Text: This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link: Privacy Policy
FEATURES
INSIGHTS
ABOUT US
LOGIN
GET STARTED

DIGITAL LIFE

Digital Youth: Strategic Insights for Nonprofits

REPORT

$1,500.00 (EXCL.TAX)

ADD TO CART

Description

In a world where the youth are spending significant amounts of time online, it’s crucial for non-profit decision-makers to understand their virtual journeys. What online platforms captivate their attention? How are their real-life relationships, academic pursuits, and future influenced by their digital interactions? What role does social media play, and how do they perceive its impact?

 

Our comprehensive research provides valuable insights into their online behavior and preferences, digital destinations of choice, and perceptions of technology’s role in their education. Uncover the subtleties of middle and high school students’ online lives, learn how digital tools shape their real-world decisions, and understand their sentiments towards these digital experiences. This report is designed to equip non-profit and mission-driven organizations with the knowledge to better connect with, inspire, and influence today’s digitally savvy youth. 

1 OF 4

Learn About Our Research

Our reports provide insights based on speaking directly to teens. We go beyond asking comprehensive questions - we write teen-friendly copy to encourage their participation. Our analysis leads to actionable insights that illustrate what it's really like to be a teen today.

Types of Reports

TeenVoice provides a range of different reports to meet your needs, including short articles, topical and thematic deep-dive focus reports, and comprehensive landscape reports tailored to industry needs.

Our Methodology

We generate detailed insights in our reports by asking topical questions in a teen-friendly voice to a nationally representative sample of over 2,000 teens. We perform rigorous analysis to provide views based on age, gender, race, and more.

Expert Insights

With a combined 40 years in higher education, conducting consumer research, and studying human behavior, our staff of expert researchers and PhDs know how to talk to teens and craft actionable insights from their responses.

Quick Links

SURVEY BUILDER
INSIGHTS
FEATURES
ABOUT US
FAQ
LOGIN
PRIVACY POLICY
COMMERCIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS

EVOLVEME

a free future-planning site for teens

ⓒ 2024 TeenVoice. All rights reserved.
Distinct Misspelled Words: [
  '150000',        'excltax',
  'non-profit',    'decision-makers',
  'real-life',     'technologys',
  'real-world',    'mission-driven',
  'teen-friendly', 'deep-dive',
  '40',            'phds',
  'evolveme',      'future-planning'
]
